hello everyone welcome to the weekly IPL
d sync meeting and we trying to figure
out what we're supposed to be doing and
would anyone like to go first I'll go
first I moved into a new house and
that's about it so I didn't get any
blank work related things done but I did
move into this new house
although I did hurt my back pretty bad
[Music]
next up is a person Erik oh I'll go fits
well Erica writes because you'll know
it's probably gonna be okay 13
unfortunately yes some other interesting
efforts have been made this week our
engineering I guess maybe I'll shout out
that's something I would like to think
about doing in the next week it is maybe
try pairing with someone to write some
draft specifications that I want a cold
brain for something that I've had on
kind of the back burner is this need
that we probably have four so what I'm
going to call it placeholder name power
passing like when we have paths and we
want to start talking about isn't this
past segment going to go in and use a
hampt or something versus is it not
strength be able to toggle modes do I
need to be able to I don't know anything
else that you can imagine being touched
on in that so I've got some like super
skeletal thoughts about that that I want
to explore but they're not even in a
publish relaxed Laurasia report yet so
yeah I don't know when but I'd love to
borrow some
his brain and tried drafting together
and maybe that'll get out faster through
this about so you you actually don't I
already have well but we never finish
that part make sure we just talked about
it yeah yeah writing is necessary but
yeah I would also like to circulate time
times ends make it all good but not
today
the string of meetings today maybe
tomorrow
sorry ok I need to figure out which deal
I know I can use with you because our
series of bridges makes that a
non-trivial to see but we'll take you up
on that otherwise thanks ok I'll do some
some notes then so I it was the
scattered wig end
I've been chasing a computer fixing
stuff as well so not highly productive
but but I have been running this
sequential I peeled a verification of
the bitcoins data that I've converted to
I peeled me just walking slowly back
through the blockchain from the tip to
the Genesis just to make sure that
everything I've got can be reconstructed
now that it's in this big pool and I did
find one problem in that process which I
thought was a problem with the data and
that I'd need to regenerate some of the
data but
turns out not to be there's yet another
problem with Sigrid and differentiating
between cigarette and non secret blocks
and and this is this impacts a very
small number I don't know how many but
very small number of blocks and I think
with this one I'm gonna have to resort
to using block time to do the
differentiation it's not yeah it's it's
not the end of the world but it's not
pleasant because block time doesn't
exist in the place where you need it so
you need it's one of these pieces of
context you need to carry with you as
you're doing this navigation which is
not terrible it's not if if you if you
had a problem taking context with you
while you're waiting a vagator this is a
case where that and and where you and
then you couldn't differentiate this is
one of those cases where it wouldn't
matter so much it matters if you want to
reconstruct the block in perfect
condition to reconstruct the blockchain
in like pure watt binary form and say
this block is these bytes that's where
it matters and that's you know for this
kind of data that use case is not really
that that alive so it's not the end of
the world it's just very unfortunate
that a block train hype has to come into
the equation and as Peter was saying
earlier yesterday I think this is going
to come into play without the blockchain
so we're height is used as a flag for a
number of different switches of
protocols and formats and things and
they just because you just don't store
the height on these things
the height is external context time is a
proxy for height and in bitcoins case
it's not a terrible proxy because there
are some validation guaranteeing is
about time being within a certain window
I was trying to figure out exactly what
that algorithm was and it's it's pretty
tight but anyway that's unfortunate I
started writing a big spec doc for this
to describe Bitcoin from a IPL the
content addressing perspective
um it'll eventually be a pull request
against the specs repo I cleaned up all
the codes ready to push in most cases
Doc's are ready you know in the
different code bases I just need to give
Michael a this itemized list of things
to be done that are dependencies for
this work because this is this is also
in the middle of the JavaScript multi
formats work that it's not quite
resolved yet so that's not super
critical work it's just sort of Ling
lingering at the moment and I'll get
that done maybe this week that's me I
think I have I've got a different week
coming up but I've still got it I've got
to work on some of this big grand stuff
in parallel and then I was gonna be
diving him more deeply into the Z cache
and do that so that's me
anyone else like to give a update all
the last questions which one to ask last
to add one thing to what rod said for
those who didn't see my message it's not
only that the block height is something
historic it's something that will keep
reappearing in the future because core
distributed soft forking relevant by
consensus dis essentially Don the way to
agree on something to say somewhere in
the future that height such-and-such if
the rest of the network agrees who will
start doing X instead so this will keep
coming up even after we're done with the
with the work right now I'll also say
that like something that I see fairly
often is like a blockchain transaction
used as like a cheap timestamp on
something and like a verifiable
timestamp on something so this is
probably something that's gonna come up
again and again and that we should just
think like there's some sort of higher
level library here that would do a nice
job of surfacing this that we
we don't really have at that codec layer
right now but it's just me keep in mind
and I also asked why but he doesn't
reply yet where that file coin itself
might need to rely on that in the future
which I guess the answer is yes but yeah
which would be unfortunate for Falcone
because I think they've got a very heavy
blockchain it's very dense
and a lot of data being generated in a
short amount of time so it would be a
shame to need all of that to be able to
discern some of these things but it'll
be interesting to see their response do
you think anyone else would like to talk
about okay
let's round it up in thanks for joining
us everyone and I am stopping them